Principal Applied AI Engineer

Overview
Microsoft is a company where passionate innovators come to collaborate, envision what can be and
take their careers further. This is a world of more possibilities, more innovation, more openness,
and the sky is the limit thinking in a cloud-enabled world.

Microsoft's Azure Data engineering team is leading the transformation of analytics in the world
of data with products like databases, data integration, big data analytics, messaging & real-time
analytics, and business intelligence. The products in our portfolio include Microsoft Fabric,
Azure SQL DB, Azure Cosmos DB, Azure PostgreSQL, Azure Data Factory, Azure Synapse Analytics,
Azure Service Bus, Azure Event Grid, and Power BI. Our mission is to build the data platform
for the age of AI, powering a new class of data-first applications and driving a data culture.

Within Azure Data, the big data analytics team provides a range of products that enable data
engineers and data scientists to extract intelligence from all data: structured, semi-structured,
and unstructured. We build the Data Engineering, Data Science, and Data Integration pillars of
Microsoft Fabric.

The Applied AI team is part of the Azure Data - Customer Advisory Team (CAT) and we're seeking a
Principal Applied AI Engineer to lead some of our efforts. Our mission is to empower our customers
by leveraging their data and applying the latest advances in Generative AI to transform their
industries. Help us grow a culture of learning and inclusion where everyone strives, grows and
collaborates.

Azure data's family of products, including Fabric, Azure Cosmos DB, etc. is purpose-built for
the age of AI. Our mission is to empower our customers to transform their enterprise data into
knowledge, whether structured or unstructured (RAG, NL2SQL, etc.). We collaborate closely with
customers and Product Managers, anchoring ourselves in real-world use cases. Our commitment to
continuous improvement drives us to explore the latest AI advancements and tools, allowing us
to prototype and solve customer-centric challenges.

We do not just value differences or different perspectives. We seek them out and invite them
in so we can tap into the collective power of everyone in the company. As a result, our customers
are better served.

Microsoft's mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve
more. As employees we come together with a growth mindset, innovate to empower others, and
collaborate to realize our shared goals. Each day we build on our values of respect, integrity,
and accountability to create a culture of inclusion where everyone can thrive at work and beyond.

Required/Minimum Qualifications

Bachelor's Degree in Statistics, Econometrics, Computer Science, Electrical or Computer Engineering,
or related field AND 6+ years related experience (e.g., statistics, predictive analytics, research).

OR Master's Degree in Statistics, Econometrics, Computer Science, Electrical or Computer Engineering,
or related field AND 4+ years related experience (e.g., statistics, predictive analytics, research).

OR Doctorate in Statistics, Econometrics, Computer Science, Electrical or Computer Engineering,
or related field AND 3+ years related experience (e.g., statistics, predictive analytics, research).

OR equivalent experience.

5+ years of experience with data science / machine learning with an emphasis on experimenting
using Python, C#, etc.

Other Requirements

Ability to meet Microsoft, customer and/or government security screening requirements are
required for this role. These requirements include, but are not limited to the following
specialized security screenings: Microsoft Cloud Background Check. This position will be
required to pass the Microsoft Cloud background check upon hire/transfer and every two
years thereafter.

Preferred/Additional Qualifications

Experience with large data and compute using tools like spark, SQL, databases, other cloud
solutioning (e.g. deployment, monitoring).

Experience communicating at different levels (e.g. customers, executives) to clarify problem
statements, solutions and product feedback.

3+ years experience developing and deploying products or systems at multiple points in the
product cycle from ideation to shipping.

3+ years experience developing and deploying live production systems, as part of a product team.

5+ years experience conducting research as part of a research program (in academic or industry
settings).

2+ years experience presenting at conferences or other events in the outside research/industry
community as an invited speaker.

5+ years experience creating publications (e.g., patents, libraries, peer-reviewed
academic papers).

Master's Degree in Statistics, Econometrics, Computer Science, Electrical or Computer
Engineering, or related field AND 9+ years related experience (e.g., statistics,
predictive analytics, research).

OR Doctorate in Statistics, Econometrics, Computer Science, Electrical or Computer Engineering,
or related field AND 6+ years related experience (e.g., statistics, predictive analytics,
research).

OR equivalent experience.

Applied Sciences IC5 - The typical base pay range for this role across the U.S. is
USD $137,600 - $267,000 per year. There is a different range applicable to specific
work locations, within the San Francisco Bay area and New York City metropolitan
area, and the base pay range for this role in those locations is USD $180,400 - 
$294,000 per year.

Responsibilities

Align team efforts with product goals, steering toward a shared vision. bringing clarity of
purpose to our team's collective journey.

Develop and share guidance - repositories, templates, demos, and more - to enable our customers
with GenAI x Data. We are not just developing solutions; we are empowering others.

Lead customer projects with curiosity and depth. Each endeavor is a stepping stone, elevating our
understanding and refining our products.

Continuously experiment and learn, embracing the cutting edge of Generative AI, tools, and
stacks. We are trailblazers, shaping what is next.

Cultivate the Generative AI developer community. Our impact scales beyond code - it's about
fostering connections, knowledge sharing, and adoption.

Contribute to a culture of growth by supporting and mentoring teammates. We're not just
building software; we are nurturing each other's potential.

Embody our culture and values.